app/_src/kubernetes-ingress-controller/guides/services/tcp.md, before:

---
title: Proxy TCP requests
type: how-to
purpose: |
  How to proxy TCP requests
---

Create TCP routing configuration for {{site.base_gateway}} in Kubernetes using either the `TCPIngress` custom resource or `TCPRoute` and `TLSRoute` Gateway APIs resource.
TCP-based Ingress means that {{site.base_gateway}} forwards the TCP stream to a Pod of a Service that's running inside Kubernetes. {{site.base_gateway}} does not perform any sort of transformations.

There are two modes available:
- **Port based routing**: {{site.base_gateway}} simply proxies all traffic it receives on a specific port to the Kubernetes Service. TCP connections are load balanced across all the available Pods of the Service.
- **SNI based routing**: {{site.base_gateway}} accepts a TLS-encrypted stream at the specified port and can route traffic to different services based on the `SNI` present in the TLS handshake. {{site.base_gateway}} also terminates the TLS handshake and forward the TCP stream to the Kubernetes Service.

{% include /md/kic/prerequisites.md release=page.release disable_gateway_api=false gateway_api_experimental=true %}

## Expose additional ports

{{site.base_gateway}} does not include any TCP listen configuration by default. To expose TCP listens, update the Deployment's environment variables and port configuration.

1. Update the Deployment.
    ```bash
    kubectl patch deploy -n kong kong-gateway --patch '{
      "spec": {
        "template": {
          "spec": {
            "containers": [
              {
                "name": "proxy",
                "env": [
                  {
                    "name": "KONG_STREAM_LISTEN",
                    "value": "0.0.0.0:9000, 0.0.0.0:9443 ssl"
                  }
                ],
                "ports": [
                  {
                    "containerPort": 9000,
                    "name": "stream9000",
                    "protocol": "TCP"
                  },
                  {
                    "containerPort": 9443,
                    "name": "stream9443",
                    "protocol": "TCP"
                  }
                ]
              }
            ]
          }
        }
      }
    }'
    ```
    The results should look like this:
    ```text
    deployment.apps/kong-gateway patched
    ```

    The `ssl` parameter after the 9443 listen instructs {{site.base_gateway}} to expect TLS-encrypted TCP traffic on that port. The 9000 listen has no parameters, and expects plain TCP traffic.

1.  Update the proxy Service to indicate the new ports.

    ```bash
    kubectl patch service -n kong kong-gateway-proxy --patch '{
      "spec": {
        "ports": [
          {
            "name": "stream9000",
            "port": 9000,
            "protocol": "TCP",
            "targetPort": 9000
          },
          {
            "name": "stream9443",
            "port": 9443,
            "protocol": "TCP",
            "targetPort": 9443
          }
        ]
      }
    }'
    ```
    The results should look like this:
    ```text
    service/kong-gateway-proxy patched
    ```
1.  Configure TCPRoute (Gateway API Only)

    {:.note}
    > If you are using the Gateway APIs (TCPRoute), your Gateway needs additional configuration under `listeners`. 

    ```bash
    kubectl patch --type=json gateway kong -p='[
        {
            "op":"add",
            "path":"/spec/listeners/-",
            "value":{
                "name":"stream9000",
                "port":9000,
                "protocol":"TCP"
            }
        },
        {
            "op":"add",
            "path":"/spec/listeners/-",
            "value":{
                "name":"stream9443",
                "port":9443,
                "protocol":"TLS",
                "hostname":"tls9443.kong.example",
                "tls": {
                    "certificateRefs":[{
                        "group":"",
                        "kind":"Secret",
                        "name":"tls9443.kong.example"
                     }]
                }
            }
        }
    ]'
    ```
    The results should look like this:
    ```text
    gateway.gateway.networking.k8s.io/kong patched
    ```

{% include /md/kic/test-service-echo.md release=page.release %}

## Route based on ports

To expose the service to the outside world, create a TCPRoute resource for Gateway APIs or a TCPIngress resource for Ingress.

{% navtabs api %}
{% navtab Gateway API %}
```bash
echo "apiVersion: gateway.networking.k8s.io/v1alpha2
kind: TCPRoute
metadata:
  name: echo-plaintext
spec:
  parentRefs:
  - name: kong
    sectionName: stream9000
  rules:
  - backendRefs:
    - name: echo
      port: 1025
" | kubectl apply -f -
```

{:.note}
> v1alpha2 TCPRoutes do not support separate proxy and upstream ports. Traffic
> is redirected to `1025` upstream via Service configuration.

The results should look like this:
```text
tcproute.gateway.networking.k8s.io/echo-plaintext created
```
{% endnavtab %}
{% navtab Ingress %}
```bash
echo "apiVersion: configuration.konghq.com/v1beta1
kind: TCPIngress
metadata:
  name: echo-plaintext
  annotations:
    kubernetes.io/ingress.class: kong
spec:
  rules:
  - port: 9000
    backend:
      serviceName: echo
      servicePort: 1025
" | kubectl apply -f -
```
The results should look like this:
```text
tcpingress.configuration.konghq.com/echo-plaintext created
```
{% endnavtab %}
{% endnavtabs %}

This configuration instructs {{site.base_gateway}} to forward all traffic it
receives on port 9000 to `echo` service on port 1025.

### Test the configuration

1. Check if the Service is ready on the route.
    {% capture the_code %}
{% navtabs codeblock %}
{% navtab Gateway API %}
```bash
kubectl get tcproute echo-plaintext -ojsonpath='{.status.parents[0].conditions[?(@.reason=="Accepted")]}'
```
{% endnavtab %}
{% navtab Ingress %}
```bash
kubectl get tcpingress
```
{% endnavtab %}
{% endnavtabs %}
{% endcapture %}
{{ the_code | indent }}

    The results should look like this:

    {% capture the_code %}
{% navtabs codeblock %}
{% navtab Gateway API %}
```text
{"lastTransitionTime":"2022-11-14T19:48:51Z","message":"","observedGeneration":2,"reason":"Accepted","status":"True","type":"Accepted"}

```
{% endnavtab %}
{% navtab Ingress %}
```text
NAME             ADDRESS        AGE
echo-plaintext   192.0.2.3   3m18s

```
{% endnavtab %}
{% endnavtabs %}
{% endcapture %}
{{ the_code | indent }}

1. Connect to this service using `telnet`.
    ```shell
    $ telnet $PROXY_IP 9000
    ```

    After you  connect, type some text that you want as a response from the echo Service. 
    ```
    Trying 192.0.2.3...
    Connected to 192.0.2.3.
    Escape character is '^]'.
    Welcome, you are connected to node gke-harry-k8s-dev-pool-1-e9ebab5e-c4gw.
    Running on Pod echo-844545646c-gvmkd.
    In namespace default.
    With IP address 192.0.2.7.
    This text will be echoed back.
    This text will be echoed back.
    ^]
    telnet> Connection closed.
    ```
    To exit, press `ctrl+]` then `ctrl+d`.

    The `echo` Service is now available outside the Kubernetes cluster through {{site.base_gateway}}.

## Route based on SNI

{% include /md/kic/add-certificate.md hostname='tls9443.kong.example' release=page.release %}

1. Create the TCPIngress resource to route TLS-encrypted traffic to the `echo` service.
  {% capture the_code %}
{% navtabs codeblock %}
{% navtab Gateway API %}
```bash
echo "apiVersion: gateway.networking.k8s.io/v1alpha2
kind: TLSRoute
metadata:
  name: echo-tls
spec:
  parentRefs:
    - name: kong
      sectionName: stream9443
  hostnames:
    - tls9443.kong.example
  rules:
    - backendRefs:
      - name: echo
        port: 1025
" | kubectl apply -f -
```
{% endnavtab %}
{% navtab Ingress %}
```bash
echo "apiVersion: configuration.konghq.com/v1beta1
kind: TCPIngress
metadata:
  name: echo-tls
  annotations:
    kubernetes.io/ingress.class: kong
spec:
  tls:
  - secretName: tls9443.kong.example
    hosts:
      - tls9443.kong.example
  rules:
  - host: tls9443.kong.example
    port: 9443
    backend:
      serviceName: echo
      servicePort: 1025
" | kubectl apply -f -
```
{% endnavtab %}
{% endnavtabs %}
{% endcapture %}
{{ the_code | indent }}

    The results should look like this:

    {% capture the_code %}
{% navtabs codeblock %}
{% navtab Gateway API %}
```text
tcproute.gateway.networking.k8s.io/echo-tls created
```
{% endnavtab %}
{% navtab Ingress %}
```text
tcpingress.configuration.konghq.com/echo-tls created
```
{% endnavtab %}
{% endnavtabs %}
{% endcapture %}
{{ the_code | indent }}


### Test the configuration

You can now access the `echo` service on port 9443 with SNI `tls9443.kong.example`.

In real-world usage, you would create a DNS record for `tls9443.kong.example`pointing to your proxy Service's public IP address, which causes TLS clients to add SNI automatically. For this demo, add it manually using the OpenSSL CLI.

```bash
echo "hello" | openssl s_client -connect $PROXY_IP:9443 -servername tls9443.kong.example -quiet 2>/dev/null
```
Press Ctrl+C to exit.

The results should look like this:
```text
Welcome, you are connected to node kind-control-plane.
Running on Pod echo-5f44d4c6f9-krnhk.
In namespace default.
With IP address 10.244.0.26.
hello
```

Commit message:

fix KIC TCPRoute and TLSRoute
Signed-off-by: Jintao Zhang <zhangjintao9020@gmail.com>

app/_src/kubernetes-ingress-controller/guides/services/tcp.md, after:

---
title: Proxy TCP requests
type: how-to
purpose: |
  How to proxy TCP requests
---

Create TCP routing configuration for {{site.base_gateway}} in Kubernetes using either the `TCPIngress` custom resource or Gateway APIs resources (`TCPRoute` for plain TCP and `TLSRoute` for TLS-encrypted TCP with SNI-based routing).
TCP-based Ingress means that {{site.base_gateway}} forwards the TCP stream to a Pod of a Service that's running inside Kubernetes. {{site.base_gateway}} does not perform any sort of transformations.

There are two modes available:
- **Port based routing**: {{site.base_gateway}} simply proxies all traffic it receives on a specific port to the Kubernetes Service. TCP connections are load balanced across all the available Pods of the Service.
- **SNI based routing**: {{site.base_gateway}} accepts a TLS-encrypted stream at the specified port and can route traffic to different services based on the `SNI` present in the TLS handshake. {{site.base_gateway}} also terminates the TLS handshake and forward the TCP stream to the Kubernetes Service.

{% include /md/kic/prerequisites.md release=page.release disable_gateway_api=false gateway_api_experimental=true %}

## Expose additional ports

{{site.base_gateway}} does not include any TCP listen configuration by default. To expose TCP listens, update the Deployment's environment variables and port configuration.

1. Update the Deployment.
    ```bash
    kubectl patch deploy -n kong kong-gateway --patch '{
      "spec": {
        "template": {
          "spec": {
            "containers": [
              {
                "name": "proxy",
                "env": [
                  {
                    "name": "KONG_STREAM_LISTEN",
                    "value": "0.0.0.0:9000, 0.0.0.0:9443 ssl"
                  }
                ],
                "ports": [
                  {
                    "containerPort": 9000,
                    "name": "stream9000",
                    "protocol": "TCP"
                  },
                  {
                    "containerPort": 9443,
                    "name": "stream9443",
                    "protocol": "TCP"
                  }
                ]
              }
            ]
          }
        }
      }
    }'
    ```
    The results should look like this:
    ```text
    deployment.apps/kong-gateway patched
    ```

    The `ssl` parameter after the 9443 listen instructs {{site.base_gateway}} to expect TLS-encrypted TCP traffic on that port. The 9000 listen has no parameters, and expects plain TCP traffic.

1.  Update the proxy Service to indicate the new ports.

    ```bash
    kubectl patch service -n kong kong-gateway-proxy --patch '{
      "spec": {
        "ports": [
          {
            "name": "stream9000",
            "port": 9000,
            "protocol": "TCP",
            "targetPort": 9000
          },
          {
            "name": "stream9443",
            "port": 9443,
            "protocol": "TCP",
            "targetPort": 9443
          }
        ]
      }
    }'
    ```
    The results should look like this:
    ```text
    service/kong-gateway-proxy patched
    ```
1.  Configure TCPRoute (Gateway API Only)

    {:.note}
    > If you are using the Gateway APIs (TCPRoute), your Gateway needs additional configuration under `listeners`.

    ```bash
    kubectl patch --type=json gateway kong -p='[
        {
            "op":"add",
            "path":"/spec/listeners/-",
            "value":{
                "name":"stream9000",
                "port":9000,
                "protocol":"TCP"
            }
        },
        {
            "op":"add",
            "path":"/spec/listeners/-",
            "value":{
                "name":"stream9443",
                "port":9443,
                "protocol":"TLS",
                "hostname":"tls9443.kong.example",
                "tls": {
                    "certificateRefs":[{
                        "group":"",
                        "kind":"Secret",
                        "name":"tls9443.kong.example"
                     }]
                }
            }
        }
    ]'
    ```
    The results should look like this:
    ```text
    gateway.gateway.networking.k8s.io/kong patched
    ```

{% include /md/kic/test-service-echo.md release=page.release %}

## Route based on ports

To expose the service to the outside world, create a TCPRoute resource for Gateway APIs or a TCPIngress resource for Ingress.

{% navtabs api %}
{% navtab Gateway API %}
```bash
echo "apiVersion: gateway.networking.k8s.io/v1alpha2
kind: TCPRoute
metadata:
  name: echo-plaintext
spec:
  parentRefs:
  - name: kong
    sectionName: stream9000
  rules:
  - backendRefs:
    - name: echo
      port: 1025
" | kubectl apply -f -
```

{:.note}
> v1alpha2 TCPRoutes do not support separate proxy and upstream ports. Traffic
> is redirected to `1025` upstream via Service configuration.

The results should look like this:
```text
tcproute.gateway.networking.k8s.io/echo-plaintext created
```
{% endnavtab %}
{% navtab Ingress %}
```bash
echo "apiVersion: configuration.konghq.com/v1beta1
kind: TCPIngress
metadata:
  name: echo-plaintext
  annotations:
    kubernetes.io/ingress.class: kong
spec:
  rules:
  - port: 9000
    backend:
      serviceName: echo
      servicePort: 1025
" | kubectl apply -f -
```
The results should look like this:
```text
tcpingress.configuration.konghq.com/echo-plaintext created
```
{% endnavtab %}
{% endnavtabs %}

This configuration instructs {{site.base_gateway}} to forward all traffic it
receives on port 9000 to `echo` service on port 1025.

### Test the configuration

1. Check if the Service is ready on the route. Note that it may take a few moments for the Kong controller to process the route.
    {% capture the_code %}
{% navtabs codeblock %}
{% navtab Gateway API %}
```bash
# Wait a few seconds for the controller to process the route
sleep 5
kubectl get tcproute echo-plaintext -ojsonpath='{.status.parents[0].conditions[?(@.reason=="Accepted")]}'
```
{% endnavtab %}
{% navtab Ingress %}
```bash
kubectl get tcpingress
```
{% endnavtab %}
{% endnavtabs %}
{% endcapture %}
{{ the_code | indent }}

    The results should look like this:

    {% capture the_code %}
{% navtabs codeblock %}
{% navtab Gateway API %}
```text
{"lastTransitionTime":"2022-11-14T19:48:51Z","message":"","observedGeneration":2,"reason":"Accepted","status":"True","type":"Accepted"}

```
{% endnavtab %}
{% navtab Ingress %}
```text
NAME             ADDRESS        AGE
echo-plaintext   192.0.2.3   3m18s

```
{% endnavtab %}
{% endnavtabs %}
{% endcapture %}
{{ the_code | indent }}

1. Get the proxy IP address and connect to this service using `telnet`.
    ```shell
    $ PROXY_IP=$(kubectl get svc -n kong kong-gateway-proxy -o jsonpath='{.status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].ip}')
    $ telnet $PROXY_IP 9000
    ```

    After you  connect, type some text that you want as a response from the echo Service.
    ```
    Trying 192.0.2.3...
    Connected to 192.0.2.3.
    Escape character is '^]'.
    Welcome, you are connected to node gke-harry-k8s-dev-pool-1-e9ebab5e-c4gw.
    Running on Pod echo-844545646c-gvmkd.
    In namespace default.
    With IP address 192.0.2.7.
    This text will be echoed back.
    This text will be echoed back.
    ^]
    telnet> Connection closed.
    ```
    To exit, press `ctrl+]` then `ctrl+d`.

    The `echo` Service is now available outside the Kubernetes cluster through {{site.base_gateway}}.

## Route based on SNI

{:.note}
> For Gateway API, we use TLSRoute for SNI-based routing because it's specifically designed to handle TLS traffic with SNI information, while still proxying the underlying TCP stream. This is still considered TCP proxying, just with the added capability of routing based on the SNI in the TLS handshake.

{% include /md/kic/add-certificate.md hostname='tls9443.kong.example' release=page.release %}

1. Create the TLSRoute (for Gateway API) or TCPIngress (for Ingress) resource to route TLS-encrypted traffic to the `echo` service.
  {% capture the_code %}
{% navtabs codeblock %}
{% navtab Gateway API %}
```bash
echo "apiVersion: gateway.networking.k8s.io/v1alpha2
kind: TLSRoute
metadata:
  name: echo-tls
spec:
  parentRefs:
    - name: kong
      sectionName: stream9443
  hostnames:
    - tls9443.kong.example
  rules:
    - backendRefs:
      - name: echo
        port: 1025
" | kubectl apply -f -
```
{% endnavtab %}
{% navtab Ingress %}
```bash
echo "apiVersion: configuration.konghq.com/v1beta1
kind: TCPIngress
metadata:
  name: echo-tls
  annotations:
    kubernetes.io/ingress.class: kong
spec:
  tls:
  - secretName: tls9443.kong.example
    hosts:
      - tls9443.kong.example
  rules:
  - host: tls9443.kong.example
    port: 9443
    backend:
      serviceName: echo
      servicePort: 1025
" | kubectl apply -f -
```
{% endnavtab %}
{% endnavtabs %}
{% endcapture %}
{{ the_code | indent }}

    The results should look like this:

    {% capture the_code %}
{% navtabs codeblock %}
{% navtab Gateway API %}
```text
tlsroute.gateway.networking.k8s.io/echo-tls created
```
{% endnavtab %}
{% navtab Ingress %}
```text
tcpingress.configuration.konghq.com/echo-tls created
```
{% endnavtab %}
{% endnavtabs %}
{% endcapture %}
{{ the_code | indent }}


### Test the configuration

You can now access the `echo` service on port 9443 with SNI `tls9443.kong.example`.

In real-world usage, you would create a DNS record for `tls9443.kong.example`pointing to your proxy Service's public IP address, which causes TLS clients to add SNI automatically. For this demo, add it manually using the OpenSSL CLI.

```bash
# If you haven't set the PROXY_IP variable yet
PROXY_IP=$(kubectl get svc -n kong kong-gateway-proxy -o jsonpath='{.status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].ip}')

echo "hello" | openssl s_client -connect $PROXY_IP:9443 -servername tls9443.kong.example -quiet 2>/dev/null
```
Press Ctrl+C to exit.

The results should look like this:
```text
Welcome, you are connected to node kind-control-plane.
Running on Pod echo-5f44d4c6f9-krnhk.
In namespace default.
With IP address 10.244.0.26.
hello
```
